Welcome to testing the grass in this video.
You will name your new texture layer.
You'll turn back on the camera and lighting and the grass layer as well.
Right so the first thing I'm going to do is actually get rid of the node editor for the moment because
it's taking up a vast proportion of my screen.
So Scott the 3D view on here and I'm on Lay 5 at the moment looking down here on the head a bar and
I want to bring back my tall shelf I'm going to hide my propertys panel and then go to my layer's tab
which we added on earlier and let's have a look at what we need.
So I'm going to name this texture's or even more precise the grass textures.
And it's on its gogreen tick next to it.
Brilliant.
Let's do the.
Cameron lighting.
Turn that on.
And the grass as well.
Brilliant.
So now we've got all of those things on.
You never guess what.
OKAY GUYS IT'S challenge time.
I'd like you to test render the grass so rotate your grass around its origins how it's pointing towards
the sky the way the grass naturally grows and group the blades close together.
At the moment they're quite spread out and spread them out a little on the x and y axis to give them
some depth.
Then finally do a test render and see how it looks.
It won't be amazing at this stage.
Oh and remember to set up a camera as well.
Suppose a video now and give that a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
Let's go and render out this grass and see how it's looking.
Okay guys welcome back into blender.
What we need to do first of all is grab some of these blades of grass and make sure I'm moved one about
earlier I think it was this one.
If you've done that as well you will want to make sure to get rid of the tool shelf that the Z coordinate
is zero because we moved our regions earlier but didn't do I mean that one about anyway so I'm going
to rotate it around.
At the moment the best way to rotate it round is on the x axis.
So I'm simply in the tall shelf here going to go x 90 and I'm going to do that to everything else as
well so x.
They're 90.
Oh I selected the plane itself.
Let's just try selecting the right thing.
Ninety.
Okay.
That's all a I've picked the wrong thing.
And that one's not.
I've not moved the origin for that one yet so we'll go back and do that one last.
Let's change this one X 90 and the final one in the distance.
I nailed it.
They're brilliant.
So those are all there.
Let's go into this image here and move the origin so I'm going to pull it out of the ground initially
so can see what's going on.
That's There is the bottom.
That's just make sure it's right at the bottom on the tall shelf.
I'm going to go tools set origin to the 3-d cursor brilliance that's now done.
I'm going to get rid of the tool shelf.
I'm going to lower the origin.
Essentially that's what were moving here.
Down to zero.
And rotate it's on the x axis by all not moving they're rotated by 90.
Okay so we've got our blades of grass here and I want to render them out.
So the first thing I'm going to do is put them a bit closer to one another.
And I'm going to be a bit adventurous and scale this one up.
This one up even more.
And that one can stay the same size as well.
But I'm going to put them on a scale up just a little.
And Gollum put them rather close to one another so we can see how they're going to render.
In fact I'm going to give them a bit of depth both ways as well just to make it a little bit more exciting
although it's not going to be a great render anyway at this stage.
Now I'm going to have to set up a camera.
I'm pretty sure that none of them at the moment are looking at what's I want to look at.
So I'm going to grab the camera I set up earlier to do exactly that.
We shall see.
I can.
It is the current camera I believe.
But if not we'll just make sure it is a science a good asset the active object as the camera.
And on the propertys mania another lock the camera to view.
So I can move it about now.
This is looking like it's a silly amounts of zoom on it.
I'm not sure.
No it's because I'm zoomed all the way out here.
Now if I lock should be a bit easier to control I'm going to make my view bigger as normal.
You probably won't have to do this.
I'm just doing it because I can't see what's going on otherwise.
And let's zoom in here.
It's position the camera come back out again.
See how it looks when we got rendered mode on and we can see some shadows coming off there.
Now something is incredibly bright in our scene and it's probably one of the lights.
So let's go and see how that's turning out really really bright.
I've got my lamp here my sunlamp set up to an intensity of 11.
Let's lower that down.
That's much better and we can move around now obviously because they're a flat image of we go side on.
That's not going to be a very exciting render.
But let's go to about there.
Try and get everything in shots.
Excellent.
I'm going to go to my render tab here and just make sure my settings are set up.
I'm happy with 50 percent of 10 80 P on the dimensions.
Scroll down and look at the samples.
Now my render is set at 100 that's going to be a bit too high for a test render.
So I'm going to lower it down to 25.
In fact that might be too high later on when our scene gets more complicated.
And let's scroll down a little further.
And yet I've got my tile size optimal because I'm using my s.p. you.
Let's just make sure that the world for some reason I have lost Yes I've lost my Sky box that we created
ervice.
I'm just going to add that in really quick so environment texture there a lovely pink environment at
the moment.
I'm going to use a Mirrorball and I'm going to go ahead and open up it's one of these angular maps that
I was using previously.
I think it was the one of the sun angular mapped well.
Open that image.
That looks much better.
In fact we can then have some sky and it is well perfect.
How did you guys get on.
I'm going to render my image out now and I'm going to post mine in discussions because that looks like
some pretty good grass in a wasteland of white.
We'll need to sort that out.
Post your grass in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.